Commons: how updates go live (from 1.9)

The game lives in git and on GitHub. Pushing to the main branch runs every test
on GitHub and, only if they all pass, publishes the site to https://commons-ww.web.app
(about 5-10 minutes). If a test fails, the live site stays as it was.

When an update changes firestore.rules (the security rules):
  1. In a terminal in the Commons folder:
       npm run login          (once: opens a browser to sign in to Google)
       npm run deploy:rules   (wait for "Deploy complete!")
  2. THEN push. The rules must be live before the game code that needs them.

To run the tests yourself (optional; GitHub runs them anyway):
  npm install                          (once)
  npx playwright install chromium      (once)
  npm test                 simulation
  npm run test:rules       security rules (needs Java 21: Temurin 21 from adoptium.net)
  npm run test:smoke       the game in a browser with a pretend server
  npm run balance -- 1-60  60 scripted towns for 100 days

Admin page: https://commons-ww.web.app/admin.html
   1. Sign in to the game once with Google, then in the Firebase console open
      Authentication > Users and copy your User UID.
   2. Firestore Database > Start collection "admins" > Document ID = your UID,
      add any field (e.g. name = Michael) > Save.
   3. Open admin.html and sign in with the same Google account.

Password reset emails, if they don't arrive:
   - Check spam/junk. They come from noreply@commons-ww.firebaseapp.com.
   - Firebase console > Authentication > Sign-in method: Email/Password must be on.
   - Firebase console > Authentication > Settings > Authorised domains must list
     commons-ww.web.app.
   - Accounts made with "Continue with Google" have no password to reset.
   - Firebase stays silent (on purpose) when an address has no account.

Fresh starts (a new WORLD_ID in constants.js, with RESET_AT set to when it
went live): players already in an older world just stop seeing it in the
world switcher (OPEN_WORLDS only lists the current one), but nothing is
deleted. The old worlds/{id}, plots and plotState documents are still in
Firestore, still billed, and still readable by anyone with the id. Delete
them from the Firestore console yourself once you're sure nobody needs them
(private worlds someone made before RESET_AT are the main leftover; the
public world's old id is worth keeping a little longer in case of questions).

Notes by version (add a line here whenever a release changes how you deploy,
test or administer the game - most releases need nothing beyond "push to
main"):
   1.16  Stock exchange (Market, Shares) and alliance rankings. No new
         deploy steps.
   1.17  Town hall levels, the technology tree, the resource Exchange and
         city shares (a new worlds/{w}/stocks collection, replacing 1.16's
         companies). If you're carrying local firestore.rules changes,
         deploy them first as above; pulling this update on its own needs
         nothing extra.
   1.18  New styles and a fresh start (WORLD_ID moved on again). No new
         deploy steps; see "Fresh starts" above for the old-world leftovers.
   1.2   A real resource and production economy: wood, metal, five separate
         foods, factory recipes and products, and Stores, plus another
         fresh start (WORLD_ID is now s3). No firestore.rules change
         needed for the new resources or products themselves - offers
         aren't checked against a fixed list of resource keys - so just
         the usual push, and see "Fresh starts" above for the world reset.
   1.3   A clear always-on-screen objective banner, no more emoji in the
         UI (an SVG icon sheet instead), building shadows/depth, a jammed-
         road glow, and an idle nudge. Another fresh start (WORLD_ID is
         now s4). No new deploy steps.
   1.4   Two small fixes: houses and villas were painted the wrong colour
         (a rendering bug, not a data one), and the Settings icon now
         looks like an actual gear. No new deploy steps.
   1.5   Fixed houses' base plinth painting over the wall instead of
         under it, and reworded a locked-feature modal title. No new
         deploy steps.
   1.6   Two more raw resources (stone, coal) and a fourth factory
         product (Bricks). No firestore.rules change needed - same as
         1.2, offers aren't checked against a fixed resource list - so
         just the usual push.
   1.7   New cities start with a little water, power, wood and bricks;
         bricks now genuinely discount building costs, not just in the
         description text. No new deploy steps.
   1.8   The founding screen now explains the goal and the stakes; a
         city can now also fall from running completely dry, gridlock,
         or deep debt (each after a few days running, with warnings
         first). Another fresh start (WORLD_ID is now s5). No new
         deploy steps.
   1.9   No more guided tour; the Goals panel explains itself instead,
         with "Show me" buttons on more of its steps. New cities start
         with $2,500 (was $3,000). The top bar shows money gains in
         green, not just losses in red, and a staffed Harbour now
         boosts trade like its description always said. Another fresh
         start (WORLD_ID is now s6). No new deploy steps.
   2.0   Sawmills, quarries, farms and the rest now need a target picked
         before they make anything (wait, then collect); a new
         Greenhouse grows from a bought seed. Buildings can be leased to
         local residents (no upkeep, less tax back) or rented to another
         mayor for a fixed term paid up front. Goals now explains itself
         on click, with live progress counts, and a "Fill jobs" button
         hires the unemployed automatically. THIS UPDATE CHANGES
         firestore.rules (a new 'rent' Market offer kind) - deploy the
         rules first, as above, before pushing. Another fresh start
         (WORLD_ID is now s7).
   2.1   Oak/cedar and iron/gold/diamonds now need their own research
         (Forestry, Prospecting) before you can pick them. Leasing now
         lets you set your own tax share (up to 60%, was a fixed 50%)
         and save part of it into a ring-fenced fund that only pays for
         upgrades. No firestore.rules change. Another fresh start
         (WORLD_ID is now s1).
   2.2   Fixed a real bug: a building that fully decayed to 0% while the
         city was broke could get stuck there forever - earning and
         costing nothing - even once you were solvent again; it repairs
         normally now. The Lease/Rent panel no longer closes itself right
         after opening. New cities start with 10 settlers (was 6).
         Building now really needs wood in stock, not just money (except
         the Sawmill, which you can always build to get more). The
         Materials icon is now a log, not a present; the old Food chip
         is now a house showing how many people are actually fed by a
         grocer. No firestore.rules change, no world reset.
   2.3   Building now also needs bricks in stock, at the same rate as
         wood (except the Sawmill, Quarry, Coal mine and Factory, which
         you can always build to get more of either). The top bar is
         split and reordered: water, power, bricks, wood, then people
         fed - metal/stone/coal stay fully tracked in the Resources
         panel, just off the top bar. The "$X a day" figure now updates
         the instant a job, lease or building changes, instead of
         waiting for the next day to settle. No firestore.rules change,
         no world reset.
   2.4   A new Brickworks building turns stone into bricks on its own
         (needs Bricklaying research, once you have Masonry), so a
         Factory is free to run a different recipe at the same time.
         Two fancier designs to make there too, once researched:
         Patterned tiles and Ornamental pavers, both worth more than
         plain bricks and sellable in a Store or on the Market like any
         other product. No firestore.rules change, no world reset.
   2.5   Fixed a real gap: upgrading a Quarry, Coal mine, Sawmill, farm,
         orchard, dairy, ranch, poultry farm or Greenhouse only ever
         bought more job slots, never actually sped up the work - unlike
         a factory recipe or a power/water plant, which already worked
         faster per level too. Now they all do. No firestore.rules
         change, no world reset.
   2.6   A day now lasts 10 minutes (about 6 of daylight, 4 of night),
         down from 30 - your city still keeps living for up to 24 real
         hours while you're away. On top of the usual once-a-day
         settlement, a tenth of that day's net money now also trickles
         in every hour, so the balance visibly moves between days. New
         residents arrive a bit faster too: at least 2 a day once there's
         room and the mood for them, up from 1. No firestore.rules
         change, no world reset.
   2.7   Building now needs metal and stone in stock too, alongside wood
         (except the Sawmill and Quarry, so you can always dig your way
         out of a shortage). Bricks moved off ordinary construction: they
         reinforce a building when you upgrade it instead, on top of the
         usual money cost. The top bar is now water, energy, rock, wood
         and metal. Power and water are harder to keep up with: plants
         make a bit less and cost a bit more, and every person and
         staffed building draws more of both. No firestore.rules change,
         no world reset.
   2.8   Fixed a real bug: cars, buses and bikes on a north-south road
         always rendered sideways, as if they were on an east-west one.
         No firestore.rules change, no world reset.
   2.9   Bricks are gone: every building now needs wood, metal and stone
         to build, and the same three to upgrade - no separate material
         for upgrading any more. Masonry research and the Brickworks
         building are gone too, along with bricks, patterned tiles and
         ornamental pavers. This changes the building roster, so it's
         another fresh start (WORLD_ID is now s2). No firestore.rules
         change.
   2.10  Fixed a real bug from 2.9: a city that still had a Brickworks,
         or a factory making bricks/tiles/pavers, could freeze and stop
         saving - looked exactly like a permissions problem but wasn't;
         deploying rules again wouldn't have fixed it. The game now
         quietly cleans that out on load instead of choking on it. No
         firestore.rules change, no world reset.
   2.11  Fixed a real bug: a browser tab left open or backgrounded a
         long time could see its sign-in quietly expire, so every save
         failed with a permissions error until something else happened
         to refresh it. The game now forces a fresh sign-in when you
         come back to a tab, come back online, or a save is refused, so
         a long-idle city recovers on its own. No firestore.rules
         change, no world reset.
   2.12  Fixed a real bug: firestore.rules limits a mayor or city name
         by bytes, but the game only trimmed it by letters - a Greek
         (or other non-English) name could look short enough yet still
         be over the limit, and once that happened every future save,
         not just the rename, was silently refused forever (looked
         exactly like a stale-rules or sign-in problem, but "npm run
         deploy:rules" never fixed it, because the rules were already
         right). Names are now trimmed by bytes to match, and a change
         that still keeps failing is dropped after a few tries instead
         of blocking every other save behind it. No firestore.rules
         change, no world reset.
   2.13  Clearing a fallen city's rubble is now free, and a rubble tile
         can be kept as a landmark instead - a permanent marker naming
         the city that stood there, how long it lasted and how big it
         got. Another fresh start (WORLD_ID is now s3). No firestore.rules
         change.
   2.14  Fixed a real bug: the game tried to start audio before the
         first click or tap, which browsers refuse and log a warning
         for - it now waits for that first click. Babies arrive more
         often. Grocers now cost real money to run: set a weekly food
         budget and a price (120-300% of cost) per shop - a low price
         feeds more people, a high one earns more per sale but leaves
         more unfed. No firestore.rules change, no world reset.
   2.15  Fixed a real bug: 2.12 fixed a Greek/non-English name breaking
         saves (bytes vs letters), but missed several other places a
         name or message gets sent - listing your city on the exchange,
         chat, gifts, guestbook notes, private messages, alliances,
         worlds - which could still fail with a permissions error the
         same way. Fixed everywhere. No firestore.rules change, no
         world reset.
   2.16  Founding a city now also offers choosing your own spot on the
         map, not just the frontier. Fixed a real bug: listing your
         city on the exchange again after an earlier attempt went
         wrong could still fail with a permissions error. New: a
         Military branch of research unlocks a Military base, troops
         (five tiers), a Defence post and a night guard - the home
         front only for now, no attacking other mayors yet. The most a
         city runs unattended is now 30 days (was 144). Another fresh
         start (WORLD_ID is now s4). No firestore.rules change.
   2.17  A new city now starts with 400 of each resource (water,
         power, wood, metal, stone), not a mixed 90-200. The Market -
         trading with other mayors, the Exchange, lending and
         borrowing - no longer needs research; it's open from day one.
         The Trade technology is gone; Finance and Retail stand on
         their own now instead of needing it first. Another fresh
         start (WORLD_ID is now s5). No firestore.rules change.
   2.18  Every account and every city, at Michael's request. Two
         things had to happen outside the usual "push to main" flow:
           1. Firestore data: the usual fresh start only ever moves
              WORLD_ID on (see "Fresh starts" above) - it doesn't
              delete anything. This time the actual documents were
              deleted too, with the Firebase CLI (already set up via
              "npm run login"):
                npx firebase-tools firestore:delete <collection> --recursive --force --project commons-ww
              ...run once for each of: plots, plotState, worlds,
              desks, legacy, worldCodes (cities), then users,
              memberships, profiles, dms, inbox, feedback, reports,
              chatLimits, admins (accounts).
           2. Firebase Auth: deleting Firestore data doesn't delete
              anyone's actual sign-in - that's a separate system with
              no CLI command for "delete everyone". A one-off script
              (scripts/wipe-all-auth-users.local.mjs, gitignored, not
              part of the repo history) used firebase-admin to list
              and delete every Auth user. It needs a service account
              key: Firebase console > Project settings > Service
              accounts > Generate new private key, then
                GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/key.json node scripts/wipe-all-auth-users.local.mjs
         New: scripts/make-admin.mjs (npm run make-admin -- <email>)
         grants admin.html access to an already-signed-in player by
         email, using the same service account key, instead of doing
         the "Admin page" steps above by hand every time.
         Settings also has a Cheats tab (free money, full resources,
         time skips), visible only when the signed-in email matches
         the one hardcoded in main.js's isCheater() - nobody else
         sees the tab exists. It writes straight into the open
         city's own save client-side; nothing server-side trusts
         money/resources/day for anyone, so this doesn't open up
         anything a motivated player couldn't already do from the
         browser console - it just gives one person a button for it.
         No firestore.rules change.
   2.19  admin.html can now sign in with plain email/password too (not
         just Google) - useful for an admin who'd rather not use their
         Google account, or who doesn't have one. "Create account"
         there makes a normal email/password account the same as
         signing up in the game; once it exists, grant it access the
         usual way (npm run make-admin -- <email>).
         New: a "Cities" tab in admin.html lists every city in a
         world and lets an admin add or remove money, fill every
         resource to capacity, rename a city or its mayor, and
         ban/unban a player - all straight from the page, no script
         needed. THIS UPDATE CHANGES firestore.rules: isAdmin() can
         now write any plots/plotState doc directly (skipping the
         normal rate limits, which exist to catch ordinary play, not
         a deliberate edit), and a new banned/{uid} collection blocks
         a banned player's own saves, chat, market offers, gifts and
         DMs (reading still works - they just can't act). Deploy the
         rules first, as above, before pushing.
         admin.js now shares public/js/firebase.js's auth/Firestore
         connection (it used to start a second one) - mostly a
         simplification, worth knowing if admin.html ever needs a
         new Firestore import, since it should keep coming from
         firebase.js rather than a fresh CDN import where it's
         already exported.
   2.20  admin.html's Cities tab is now a real dashboard, not just a
         flat list. A status line and filter (All/Live/Inactive/
         Fallen, "live" meaning saved in the last 5 minutes) plus
         search and sort make it usable with more than a handful of
         cities. "Inspect" loads a city's full save and shows its
         resources, policy, research count, military and last 8 news
         items read-only, with the edit controls (money, resources,
         rename) alongside - no more editing blind. New: a "Boost
         morale" button, a policy editor (tax/funding/free transit),
         and a Disasters panel (storm, fire, earthquake, flu,
         blackout, civil unrest) via sim.js's new exported
         adminDisaster(s, kind) - the same damage/illness/mood code
         the random events and daily() already use, just triggered on
         request. No firestore.rules change (these all go through the
         admin override and banned/{uid} collection from 2.19).
         Also fixed two real bugs 2.19 shipped, caught writing the
         first Playwright coverage admin.html has ever had
         (test/smoke/smoke.spec.mjs, "admin: sign in, inspect a
         city..."): several city-edit controls (money, policy,
         rename) used admin.js's getElementById-only $() helper with
         a CSS attribute selector, which always returned null and
         threw; and admin.js's raw Firestore calls (for feedback,
         reports, chat moderation and bans) only ever worked against
         a real backend, breaking instantly against the smoke tests'
         fake one. Both needed admin.js to stop making its own
         Firestore calls and go through new firebase.js exports
         (checkAdmin, loadModeration, markHandled, adminDelete,
         setBanned) instead - the same pattern main.js already
         follows, now with a matching fake-firebase.js implementation
         so admin.html can actually be tested at all. Worth deploying
         rules again only if you skipped 2.19's deploy; nothing new
         here needs it.
   2.21  Resources in a city's Inspect panel are now one input per
         resource, prefilled with the real amount, instead of just a
         read-only line and a single "fill everything to capacity"
         button - "Save these amounts" writes exactly what's typed,
         including setting something lower than it already is, which
         Fill never could. Mood works the same way now too: a "Set
         mood" field takes any 0-100%, alongside the existing "+20%
         boost" button. Setting mood also sets every resident's own
         mood to match, not just the city-wide number - daily() only
         ever nudges happiness a quarter of the way towards the
         population's real average each day, so without that it
         would have drifted straight back. No firestore.rules change.
   2.22  The Inspect panel's Research row now has a "Set points"
         field for s.rp, same pattern as resources and mood (replaces
         the research-point count that wasn't editable before).
         No firestore.rules change.
   2.23  Hovering (mouse) or stepping the keyboard cursor onto any
         other city - a neighbour's, or further out on the map - now
         pops up its name at the top of the screen (#hover-city in
         index.html, shown via showHoverCity() in main.js). It reuses
         the same plotAt(px, py) lookup the existing screen-reader
         announcement in moveCursor() already had, so it only ever
         shows a city that's actually loaded into the local `plots`
         map - nothing new fetched from Firestore. Your own city's
         name is already always on screen (#city-name), so this only
         speaks up for somewhere else. No firestore.rules change.
         Investigated but couldn't reproduce: "can't edit your own
         city after buying a second one." Traced the whole path -
         firestore.rules' citiesOk()/plots update rule, buyPlot()'s
         transaction, switchCity(), startGame()'s state reset - and
         the existing "council: buy the plot next door and switch
         between cities" smoke test already exercises exactly this
         (found a 2nd city, opened it, switched back to the 1st) and
         passes. If it happens again, get the exact error text and
         what was clicked - there's nothing to fix without that.
   2.24  Found the real bug behind "can't edit my own city" with a
         screenshot: it wasn't switchCity() at all - it was that
         tapping a second city of your own council, without having
         gone through Account > Cities first, showed otherPlot()'s
         read-only stranger's-city panel (Like this city, Guestbook,
         send a gift...), because that panel only ever checked
         "p.owner === user.uid" to decide whether to show owner-only
         actions, never to offer the one action that actually matters
         there: switching to it. Now it does, as a new "Switch to
         this city" button (data-do="switchcity" -> switchCity(arg)
         in main.js). New smoke test ("a second city can also be
         switched to straight from the map...") buys a second city,
         declines to open it, reloads (so it's not just in-memory
         state from the buy), then finds and switches to it purely
         from the map. No firestore.rules change - switchCity() was
         already fully permitted, just unreachable from here.
